Photojournalism<br>
<br>Photojournalism is as important as the "word" journalism, if not more.  It is obvious that visual images will gladden any reader's eye; pages of unbroken text are quite intimidating to read.  Newspaper photographs are far more than just being an article's companion.  The photojournalist is ultimately, a specialized reporter.  As reporters, photojournalists must have a strong sense of the journalistic values that guide all reporters. Truthfulness, objectivity, and fairness are values that give the journalism profession credibility and respect. From getting the names spelled correctly in a group portrait to not misrepresenting yourself or a subject, truthfulness is a value that gives the public a reason to rely on the accuracy of the news they read and see in their newspaper. A photographer's credibility will suffer if personal opinions cloud their news judgment. To be fair, a journalist tries to show both sides of a controversial issue, takes photographs proportionate to their importance and tries to see each event as objectively as possible. A photographer should have a 35mm single lens reflex (SLR) camera, a pen and notebook for caption information, and a roll of film in handy.) <br>
<br>
Picture Perfect<br>

<br>A mature photojournalist will find a way to capture in photographs a fresh and decisive summation of the event. Successful picture taking is a combination of a strong news and visual sense. As reporters, photographers must use their sense of news judgment to determine if a certain subject is worth coverage and to present a fresh or unusual angle to an ordinary event. As visual recorders, photographers must use their sense of visual composition to eliminate distracting and unnecessary elements in the frame. As technicians, they must have a high level of expertise to use their machine to expose correctly and focus that peak news moment.<br>
<br>Photographers have several techniques they use to take pictures of people. They will either identify themselves immediately or wait until the subject asks for an explanation. There are two things that happen when you ask a person if you can take their picture and both of them are bad. Either they say no and you don't get the picture or they say yes and stare and smile at you like they were posing for a snapshot. When you see some unusual action, get an initial picture. Afterward, you can identify yourself, get their names, and take addition photographs after they become accustomed to your presence.<br>
<br>
Types of Photographs<br>
<br>There are six basic types of assignments a photographer faces. News, features, sports, portraits, illustrations, and picture stories each present a photographer with a different set of challenges.

