Front Page<br>
<br>The front page of the newspaper is the most important page there is. Therefore, it's layout's job to make it the best looking page there is as well. There should be, at minimum, four front page articles. If the editor-in-chief doesn't want four articles on the front page, fight him. There is only so much layout you can do with three articles before it becomes repetitive and ugly. Each article should continue on the front page and have jumps inside, leading the reader further into the paper. Ideally, this should be the only time in the newspaper that you jump articles other than on the back sports page. People hate having to turn the page to finish an article, so we shouldn't make them. Of course, it is not always possible to follow this rule without making the paper look unattractive. In those cases, you can jump articles. But do this only rarely.<br>
<br>The lead article should go on the top right hand side of the paper, two, three or four columns wide. This article's headline font is Franklin Gothic. No other article in the paper should have this headline font. Franklin Gothic Condensed or Italic yes, but not straight Franklin Gothic. The lead feature article almost always goes all the way down the left hand column of the page in a gray (7% shading) box with a text inset of three. Try to get a picture or a drawing for this article. It looks good in the corner, and might be the only picture you get for a features article each issue. The front cover should have at least three photos, one of which has to be for the lead article. If that article doesn't have the picture, it can't be the lead. Period.<br>
<br>A good front page can be seen on the right. All three news articles have pictures. As often happens with the lead feature, no picture could be obtained, so Layout had Art draw a picture that is related to the article (Art will sometimes give you a hard time over this. Make them do it. It's their job).<br>
<br>
The Opinion Pages<br>
<br>The editorial page is the only four column page in the issue. The editorial goes right above the masthead, once in a blue moon going beyond that pre-made box. The rest of the page is filled with letters to the editor and opinion pieces, which also fill the facing page. No photos go on these pages. Other than icons, the only non-text thing on these pages should be an editorial cartoon. If you need an editorial cartoon (for space reasons), ask the art department at the beginning of the week. Make sure it is actually an editorial cartoon, expressing an opinion on a relevant issue. If it isn't, ask Art for a new cartoon. Repeat until they get it right.<br>
<br>
The Back Page<br>

<br>This is where the lead Sports articles go, and follows all the rules the front page does. Instead of a lead feature, the left hand column should contain an Athlete Spotlight. Like the lead feature, it should be in a gray (7% shading) box with a three point text inset. Instead of a fourth article, there is often a photo for an article inside the Sports section, but not on the back page. Make sure this picture is completely independent from any articles on this page, with lines separating it from any bordering articles. It should also fall under no headline.<br>
<br>
The Rest of the Paper<br>
<br>Each page should contain 3-5 articles or ads (though some pages have full page of half page ads. Use your discretion). The key word in laying out articles is asymmetry. No two articles should end on the same line on a page. It's ugly. If two articles do do that, move one of them. Also, do not create a puzzle with the page. Each article, including pictures, outquotes and icons if they contain those things, should be rectangular in shape. Creating shapes out of Tetris, causing articles that interlock, is a big no-no. Articles are separated with lines, which are placed once the issue is completely laid out. Every now and then, instead of a horizontal line, you can use a horizontal icon to separate articles instead. Bylines should have one enter before them and two after them before the article begins. Bylines have their own font, found in the style menu. The writer's name should be completely capitalized. Two lines, known as byline lines (found in the The spectator library in Quark), should be placed around the byline once the issue is completely laid out.<br>
<br>Also important is breaking up text. Line upon line of text is boring to look at, so it should be broken up with photos, outquotes and icons. Photos go in the upper right hand part of an article, and should be at least one column thinner than the actual article. If the picture is the same number of columns wide, it goes above the article's headline, which is also acceptable. Outquotes go in the middle of articles, placed at your discretion. Icons can be placed in the middle of the article to break up text or at the end of an article to make the article longer. You can also place icons in between columns with a runaround of about three instead of the normal horizontal box. A good way to figure out if text needs to be broken up is to view at actual size and put your hand to the screen. If all your hand touches is text, it needs to be broken up.<br>
<br>While it is important to follow these rules, going by the same template every page, every issue can be boring. Sometimes, creative layout is in order. A good example of a creatively laid out page is shown at right. While breaking none of the rules said above, it is unique, containing only one article with a creatively laid out picture. Do this when possible, but never more than once in an issue, and also not every issue. Just use it as a nice change of pace every few issues (also, not exactly like the example every time, either).<br>
<br>
Icons <br>
<br>Use icons as a last resort. In all cases, outquotes and resizing of photos are preferable in filling a page. In a perfect world, we would get as many pictures as we need, and all articles would have a set length (in other words, if we were The New York Times), and we would not need icons. Unfortunately, that is not the case, so instead Art supplies us with a steady supply of these random non-sequiturs. Place them throughout the paper in the manner outlined above. Never repeat icons. No two issues should contain the same icons, though icons often do end up looking alike. They should be no longer than an inch in height (using the ruler that Quark provides), and should fill up most of their box. Aspect ratio change in icons is acceptable, but not excessively. Also, always save icons as bitmap files when saving them in Photoshop. It saves hard disk space, and causes less hassle.<br>
<br>Horizontal icons follow all the rules of normal icons, but are more than one column in length. They should never be used to break up text. Instead, they should be placed in between articles in place of horizontal lines, or at the bottom of articles to take up space left on the page. Like normal icons, they should be no taller than an inch and should fill their box. This is doubly important for horizontal icons, however, as they draw more attention than their normal counterparts.<br>
<br>
Photos<br>
<br>We saved the most difficult part for last. Photos are the most important part of Layout's job. If you screw up an article or an icon, while bad, it doesn't draw that much attention. Photos are the biggest attention getters in the paper, and therefore, if you screw them up, contain the most glaring mistakes you can make. There are two ways to go about sizing photos. On the one hand, you should do justice to the photos by making them big enough. On the other hand, you should resize photos according to the needs of the text on that page. <br>
<br>Once you get photos, you have to lighten them. If you don't, they'll be a big dark blob on the printed page. There are three ways to lighten photos in Photoshop: the brightness/contrast, curves and levels tools. Never use brightness/contrast. It's too inaccurate. Levels is probably the best way to fix a picture. Lighten the photo by first pressing the auto button, then dragging the three input levels arrows right and left. Right darkens, left lightens. Use mainly the middle arrow, though also use the right-most arrows and occasionally the left-most arrow, until the picture is as light as you would like. Then, lighten it a little more with the middle arrow. Finally, change the left Output Levels box from zero to anywhere from 10-40 in increments of ten. Only then will it be light enough.<br>
<br>When placing photos in layout, use the method outlined above. Never place photos above the byline. Always put a photo on the right hand side of an article. If the picture is a vertical photo, use either the one or two column box (you can find photo boxes, complete with spaces for captions and photo credit in the Spectator library file in Quark). If it is a horizontal photo, use either the three or, occasionally, four column box. Never change the aspect ratio of a photo. When sizing a photo, always make the horizontal size equal to vertical. A skewed aspect ratio for a photo is as ugly as you can get. Placing photos should be one of the last things you do to layout the paper. The boxes for photos should go in at the beginning, but they should only be filled with a picture at the end. That way, you don't have to change the size of a photo every time you change the size of its box. Once you've finished placing photos, all you have to do is add lines and byline lines. Then, you're home free.